README.md, before:

# buildrpms
**Script for building RPM packages from tar archives**<br />
<br />

### Detailed description
`buildrpms` takes a list of paths to tar archives (including simple file
names, absolute, relative paths and homedir expansion by a leading tilde "~")
with each list item (i.e., archive path) as a single argument.  Provided
paths may point to files or directories; if a directory is addressed, the
whole directory tree below this directory is searched for valid archive
files.

If an archive path contains no slashes (/), it is used as a simple archive
file name; still the wildcard rules denoted below apply.  This name is used
to search for valid archive files in a list of directories containing "." and
"~/Downloads"; for each of these directories the whole directory tree below
is searched.  The only exception are directories named "SOURCES", if the
option "-i|--in-place" is used.

Without the option "-i|--in-place", `buildrpms` avoids re-building archives
for which an (S)RPM in the directories ./RPMS or ./SRPMS exists by analysing
spec file content, the archive's top level directory and the archive name (in
this order of precedence).

The archive paths may either contain shell type wildcard characters
(? * [ ]), or be truncated (i.e., provide only a path without unquoted
wildcard characters, including or comprising the beginning of a archive file
name or a complete such name).
File paths ending in a slash are the only exception: They may contain
wildcard characters, even though the whole directory tree below the provided
path is searched for valid archive files.

Control characters, which include all horizontal and vertical white spaces
except for the simple space character, are not allowed in the provided
archive paths.

Mind to protect wildcards, the tilde and other special characters from being
expanded by a shell, if `buildrpms` is intended to interpret them.

`buildrpms` currently recognises the mutually exclusive options "-?|--help",
"-i|--in-place", "-n|--no-move" and "-d|--debug".  By default `buildrpms`
extracts the spec file of each archive found, processes it and moves each
valid archive to the ./SOURCES directory; "-n|--no-move" links each valid
archive in ./SOURCES instead of moving.  "-i|--in-place" omits extracting and
processing of spec files and directly uses the archives at their original
location.
If no archive path list is provided, `buildrpms` will use an internal list of
archive paths.

`Buildrpms` outputs (to StdOUT) a the list of archive paths, with which
ultimately `rpmbuild` is called after a multitude of checks.  All user
oriented messages are directed to StdERR, except for the aforementioned
archive paths and the help output.  The option "-d|--debug" provides some
additional output to StdERR when processing the input list.

Exit codes:<br />
  0  Everything worked fine: all applicable checks, all applicable preparatory steps, and the rpmbuild run(s)<br />
  1  A check failed<br />
  2  Help called<br />
  3  Called incorrectly (e.g., with wrong parameters)<br />
  4  Aborted upon user request<br />
  5  Error while interacting with the OS (reading / writing from the filesystem, calling programs, etc.)<br />
  6  Error while executing one of the preparatory steps<br />
  7  Error internal to this script<br />

Commit message:

Sync with corresponding section in `buildrpms`

README.md, after:

# buildrpms
**Script for building RPM packages from tar archives**<br />
<br />

### Detailed description
`buildrpms` takes a list of paths to tar archives (including simple file
names, absolute, relative paths and homedir expansion by a leading tilde "~")
with each list item (i.e., archive path) as a single argument.  Provided
paths may point to files or directories; if a directory is addressed, the
whole directory tree below this directory is searched for valid archive
files.

If an archive path contains no slashes (/), it is used as a simple archive
file name; still the wildcard rules denoted below apply.  This name is used
to search for valid archive files in a list of directories containing "." and
"~/Downloads"; for each of these directories the whole directory tree below
is searched.  The only exception are directories named "SOURCES", if the
option "-i|--in-place" is used.

Without the option "-i|--in-place", `buildrpms` avoids re-building archives
for which an (S)RPM in the directories ./RPMS or ./SRPMS exists by analysing
spec file content, the archive's top level directory and the archive name (in
this order of precedence).

The archive paths may either contain shell type wildcard characters
(? * [ ]), or be truncated (i.e., provide only a path without unquoted
wildcard characters, including or comprising the beginning of a archive file
name or a complete such name).
File paths ending in a slash are the only exception: They may contain
wildcard characters, even though the whole directory tree below the provided
path is searched for valid archive files.

Control characters, which include all horizontal and vertical white spaces
except for the simple space character, are not allowed in the provided
archive paths.

Mind to protect wildcards, the tilde and other special characters from being
expanded by a shell, if `buildrpms` is intended to interpret them.

Also mind, that `buildrpms` lastly calls `rpmbuild`, which expects the real
archive file names to conform to "\<name\>-\<version\>.\<file name extension\>" (i.e.,
the ones on mass-storage), unless `buildrpms`' option "-i|--in-place" is
specified.

`buildrpms` currently recognises the mutually exclusive options "-?|--help",
"-i|--in-place", "-n|--no-move" and "-d|--debug".  By default `buildrpms`
extracts the spec file of each archive found, processes it and moves each
valid archive to the ./SOURCES directory; "-n|--no-move" links each valid
archive in ./SOURCES instead of moving.  "-i|--in-place" omits extracting and
processing of spec files and directly uses the archives at their original
location.
If no archive path list is provided, `buildrpms` will use an internal list of
archive paths.

`Buildrpms` outputs (to StdOUT) a the list of archive paths, with which
ultimately `rpmbuild` is called after a multitude of checks.  All user
oriented messages are directed to StdERR, except for the aforementioned
archive paths and the help output.  The option "-d|--debug" provides some
additional output to StdERR when processing the argument list.

Exit codes:<br />
  0  Everything worked fine: all applicable checks, all applicable preparatory steps, and the rpmbuild run(s)<br />
  1  A check failed<br />
  2  Help called<br />
  3  Called incorrectly (e.g., with wrong parameters)<br />
  4  Aborted upon user request<br />
  5  Error while interacting with the OS (reading / writing from the filesystem, calling programs, etc.)<br />
  6  Error while executing one of the preparatory steps<br />
  7  Error internal to this script<br />
